p1_studio 29 - The Legend of Zelda: DESIGN.txt

"What is the pitch for your custom mechanic?": Our custom mechanic is a reduction to the homing property of the player's boomerang weapon. This allows the player to move their character out of the way of a returning boomerang, resulting in the boomerang forming an orbit around the player. This orbit can be adjusted with further character movement to perform a variety of boomerang arcs (namely reaching diagonally from the player and longer distances than the original boomerang) not possible in the classic game.

"What is the pitch for your custom level?": Our custom level is crafted to showing off the new potential of the orbiting boomerang weapon. Floating crystal targets and enemies lie diagonally to the player or are out of the range of the original boomerang arc, but the player can move to create an orbit with the custom boomerang that can hit these previously inaccessible targets.

"How does your new mechanic / custom level change the way the game is played?": Most puzzle targets and enemies in our custom level are placed out of reach of a regular boomerang throw, and so use of the orbiting boomerang mechanic is required to progress in the level. These orbits are achieved by predicting the path of the boomerang and so the player shifts more of their attention onto the boomerang's path, how link's position affects it, and the targets that may lie on that path. Moving the player character adjusts this path, so our mechanic renders player movement/positioning essential for offensive play.

"What new interesting decisions does your new mechanic / custom level bring about?": By linking the player character's movement to their only weapon, attacking is no longer a simple button press. Attacking now requires the player to observe and predict the path of the boomerang. If the boomerang's path is not going to intersect with a desired target, then the player also needs to decide which direction to move in order to shift the boomerang's trajectory towards a desired target. The potential skill expression to this mechanic is shown during later rooms, where the same player movement is used to simultaneously guide the boomerang, avoid walls/obstacles, and dodge enemy projectiles.

"How do you explain the new mechanic to the player (or make its utility obvious) while they are playing without using a bunch of clumsy text?": An introductory cutscene sequence explains the loss of link's previous weapons. As our custom mechanic relies upon the player moving after throwing the boomerang, we summon a piston to forcefully push the player when they first throw the boomerang; so all players will see the resultant boomerang orbit, regardless of their (lack of) follow-up movement inputs. We then use a set of basic puzzles where the player learns their boomerang can be used to hit diagonal or far away targets in a safe environment, before requiring these same abilities to be tested against dangerous enemies.

Oliver Pardi (pardio)'s Portfolio: https://pardio1.github.io/
Zheng Luo (louz)'s Portfolio: